.\" galileorc galileo configuration file manual page.
.\"
.\" View this file before installing it with:
.\"   groff -man -Tascii galileorc.5
.\" or
.\"   man ./galileorc.5
.TH galileorc 5 "June 2014" 0.5dev "File Formats Manual"

.SH NAME
galileorc \- configuration files for the galileo Fitbit synchronization
utility

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B galileorc
file is used to provide default settings to the
.BR galileo (1)
utility. Any settings that would normally be passed as
command\-line arguments to galileo can, instead, be present in this
configuration file to prevent having to repeat them again and again.
.PP
Settings provided in the configuration files can be overridden by
run\-time command\-line switches. See
.BR galileo (1)
.

.SH FILES
The following files will be read if present. Later one override
previous settings and settings provided on the command-line override
settings defined in configuration files.
.IP \(bu
.I /etc/galileo/config
.IP \(bu
.I $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/galileo/config
(The \fBXDG_CONFIG_HOME\fR environment variable default to
\fI~/.config\fR if not defined)
.IP \(bu
.I ~/.galileorc
.IP \(bu
any file specified with the \fB-c\fR command\-line switch

.SH SYNTAX
The settings file is defined in \fIYAML\fR format. Blank lines and
comments (from the first hash character \(aq#\(aq to the end of the
line) are ignored.
.PP
The configuration file is parsed as a dictionnary of settings, which
means that each setting is defined using a keyword followed by a colon
character. For single\-value settings (the majority), the value follows
the colon, for example:
.PP
.nf
do-upload: true
.fi
.PP
For settings of type \fIlist\fR (such as the tracker ID inclusion and
exclusion lists), the values appear with an indentation on subsequent
lines and prefixed with a dash, for example:
.PP
.nf
include:
  - '123456789ABC'
  - '9876543210AB'
.fi

.SH SETTINGS
The following settings can be added to the configuration
files \- not all options have to be specified; any that are not
mentioned will leave the defaults in effect. See
.BR galileo (1)
for details about the default values.
.TP
.B logging
controls the amount of progress output. Can be \fBverbose\fR to
display progress during synchronization, \fBdebug\fR for more
detailed information useful for diagnosing problems, or \fBquiet\fR to
display only a warning and error messages.
.TP
.B syslog
setting this to \fBtrue\fR will send all logging output to the syslog
facility. Due to the rate-limiting of some syslog servers, this option might
not work in combination with the debug log level.
.TP
.B include
the list of tracker IDs to synchronize. If this is specified then only
trackers from this list will be synchronised.
.TP
.B exclude
the list of tracker IDs not to synchronize.
.TP
.B force-sync
setting this to \fBtrue\fR causes trackers to be synchronized even if
they report that they already have been synchronized recently.
.TP
.B daemon-period
this defines, in milliseconds, the period at which a synchronisation
attempt will be performed when galileo is run in \fBdaemon\fR mode.
.TP
.B keep-dumps
setting this to \fBtrue\fR causes galileo to save the data retrieved
from trackers to the directory specified in \fBdump-dir\fR.
.TP
.B dump-dir
the directory used for saving tracker data if the \fBkeep-dumps\fR
option is set.
.TP
.B do-upload
setting this to \fBfalse\fR will prevent galileo from sending tracker
data to the Fitbit web service.
.TP
.B https-only
setting this to \fBfalse\fR will allow galileo to fallback to
unencrypted HTTP if HTTPS fails for sending tracker data to the Fitbit
web service.
.TP
.B hardcoded-ui
This is a structured section that includes the answers needed during the
pairing/firmware update process.

.SH EXAMPLE
The following is an example configuration file:
.PP
.nf
daemon-period: 60000
keep-dumps: false
do-upload: true
dump-dir: ~/.galileo-tracker-data
logging: verbose
force-sync: false
https-only: false
include:
  - '123456789ABC'
  - '9876543210AB'
exclude:
  - 'AABBCCDDEEFF'
  - '881144BB1234'
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
<\fBhttp://www.yaml.org\fR>
The official YAML homepage, with more background information on the
YAML file format.
.TP
.BR galileo (1)
The \fBgalileo\fR utility which uses these configuration files for
default settings.
.TP
<\fBhttps://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo\fR>
The \fBgalileo\fR homepage where additional information is available.

.SH AUTHOR
Written and maintained by Benoît Allard, with contributions from other
authors.

.SH BUGS
Tracker IDs which consist of only numbers must be surrounded with
single quotes (as in the \fIEXAMPLE\fR section above). It's probably a
good idea to always quote tracker IDs to avoid possible confusion.
.PP
Please report additional bugs to
<\fBhttps://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo/issues\fR>.
