.\" galileo python command-line utility manual page.
.\"
.\" View this file before installing it with:
.\"   groff -man -Tascii galileo.1
.\" or
.\"   man ./galileo.1
.TH galileo  1  "June 2014" 0.5dev "User Commands"
.SH NAME
galileo \- synchronize Fitbit devices

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B galileo
.RB [ "\-h" ]
.RB [ "\-c \fIFILENAME\fR" ]
.RB [ "\-\-dump\-dir \fIDIR\fR" ]
.RB [ "\-\-daemon\-period \fIPERIOD\fR" ]
.RB [ "\-I \fIID\fR" "[ \fIID \.\.\.\fR ] ]"
.RB [ "\-X \fIID\fR" "[ \fIID \.\.\.\fR ] ]"
.RB [ "\-v" | "\-d" | "\-q" ]
.RB [ "\-\-force" | "\-\-no\-force" ]
.RB [ "\-\-dump" | "\-\-no\-dump" ]
.RB [ "\-\-upload" | "\-\-no\-upload" ]
.RB [ "\-\-https\-only" | "\-\-no\-https\-only" ]
.RB [ "\-\-log\-size \fISIZE\fR" ]
.RB [ "\-\-syslog" | "\-\-no\-syslog" ]
.RB [ "sync" | "daemon" | "version" ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Synchronize Fitbit wearable fitness tracker devices with the Fitbit web service.
Visit <
.B https://www.fitbit.com
>, or use a Fitbit-compatible app in order
to browse your data.

.SH MODES
.TP
.B sync
Perform the synchronization of all found trackers, then exit. This is
the default mode if none is specified.
.TP
.B daemon
Periodically perform synchronization of all found trackers.
.B galileo
will periodically perform synchronization until the daemon is killed. The
period can be controlled via the
.B \-\-daemon\-period
option.
.TP
.B version
Display the
.B galileo
version and exit.
.TP
.B interactive
This spawn an interactive shell to allow sending arbitrary commands to
the dongle and the tracker. This is meant to allow experimenting with
new commands, or different command orders. To be used by experts
only.
.TP
.B pair
This mode, in an experimental state, allow you to link your tracker with your
Fitbit online account. This is needed before being able to use any new tracker.
In order to use this mode, you need an account in the Fitbit online platform,
and a tracker. The parameters for this mode are taken from the
.B hardcoded-ui
section of the
.BR galileorc (5)
file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
show command-line usage and exit.
.TP
.BR "\-c \fIRCCONFIGNAME\fR" ", " "\-\-config \fIRCCONFIGNAME\fR"
use \fIRCCONFIGNAME\fR as extra configuration file in order to allow overriding
of settings.

.P
The remaining options are first read from configuration file, and can be
overridden by using command line switches. For this reason, positive and
negative versions are available (\fB\-\-foo\fR and \fB\-\-no\-foo\fR). Please
see
.BR galileorc (5)
for more information about the configuration files.

.SS Logging options:
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
display general information on progress during synchronization.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-debug
as \fB\-\-verbose\fR, but also shows internal activity useful for
diagnosing problems.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
show no output except for errors and a summary. This is the default
if no other logging options are specified.
.TP
.BR \-\-syslog
send logging output to the syslog facility.
Due to the rate-limiting of some syslog servers, this option might not work in
combination with the debug log level.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-syslog
send logging output to stderr.
.SS Synchronization control options:
.TP
\fB\-I\fR \fIID\fR [\fIID\fR ...], \
\fB\-\-include\fR \fIID\fR [\fIID\fR ...]
list of tracker IDs to synchronize (if not set, all found trackers are
synchronized).
.TP
\fB\-X\fR \fIID\fR [\fIID\fR ...], \
\fB\-\-exclude\fR \fIID\fR [\fIID\fR ...]
list of tracker IDs to avoid synchronizing (no trackers are excluded
by default).
.TP
.B \-\-force
a tracker will not be synchronized with the Fitbit web service if it reports
that it was recently synchronized. This option overrides that behavior.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-force
if the configuration file includes the \fBforce\-sync\fR option to
always force synchronization, this option will restore the default
behaviour.
.TP
.BI \-\-daemon\-period " PERIOD"
set the time to wait between synchronizations when running in
\fBdaemon\fR mode. The period is specified in milliseconds and
defaults to 15000 (15 seconds).
.SS Tracker data saving options:
.TP
.B \-\-dump
save a copy of the tracker data. Tracker data is stored under a
tracker-specific subdirectory of a directory that is set using the
\fB\-\-dump\-dir\fR option. This is the default behavior.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-dump
disables the saving of tracker data.
.TP
.BI \-\-dump\-dir " DIR"
the directory used to store the tracker dumps (defaults to
\fB~/.galileo\fR).
.SS Data transfer options:
.TP
.B \-\-upload
synchronize tracker data with the Fitbit web service. This is the
default.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-upload
prevent the uploading of tracker data to the Fitbit web service. Data
is not deleted from trackers until it is acknowledged by the fitbit server
so this will not result in data loss.
.TP
.B \-\-https\-only
data sent to the Fitbit web service will be transferred via a secure connection
using HTTPS. This is the default.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-https\-only
if HTTPS connection is not possible, this will allow the fallback to HTTP.
This should only be required if problems with encryption libraries prevent
data transfer without this option.
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-size " SIZE"
indicate the amount of communication that should be displayed in case of
errors. Galileo will keep in memory the last \fISIZE\fR communications to help
debugging if an error happen. This is particularly useful in case of
hard-to-reproduce issues, where it is too late to collect debug information.
Default to 10. Set to 0 to disable this functionality.

.SH REQUIREMENTS
An original Fitbit Bluetooth-LE USB synchronization dongle is
required.
.PP
The Fitbit tracker must already be registered to your Fitbit account
(see the BUGS section).
.SH FILES
.TP
.IR /etc/galileo/config ", " $XDG_CONFIG_HOME/galileo/config ", " ~/.galileorc
The configuration files used for default settings. See
.BR galileorc (5)
for further details about those files

.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
<\fBhttp://www.fitbit.com\fR>
The Fitbit web service where synchronized tracker data may be viewed.
.TP
<\fBhttps://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo\fR>
The \fBgalileo\fR homepage where additional information is available.
.TP
.BR galileorc (5)
The format of the configuration file providing default settings.

.SH AUTHOR
Written and maintained by Benoît Allard, with contributions from other
authors.

.SH BUGS
There are no current facilities to make use of the data stored with
the \fB\-\-dump\fR command.
.PP
Please report additional bugs to
<\fBhttps://bitbucket.org/benallard/galileo/issues\fR>
